section4/README.md, before:

# Section 4 - Objects, Classes and Code Challenges

Section 4 is estimated to take a total of 10-14 hours to complete. Similar to the previous sections, this section of pre-work involves reading 📒, 👨🏾‍💻exercises, and 📝reflection questions. Make sure to manage your time well so that should you get stuck and need help, you have plenty of time to do so and meet the deadline.

- [Vocabulary](#Vocabulary)
- [Part A: How You Spend Your Time](#Part-A-How-You-Spend-Your-Time)
- [Part B: Classes](#Part-B-Classes)

## Vocabulary

### Vocabulary Terms

- method
- class
- class instance
- properties

## Part A How You Spend Your Time

One challenge developers face, moreso when they are starting out, is estimating how long something will take. Sometimes we don't account for merge conflicts, bugs, annoying Slack messages, and all the other things that interrupt our workflow or slow us down.

One challenge learners in a new environment/content area face is feeling like they know nothing, and until they know everything, they feel like they are failing.

So this week, we would like you to start self-monitoring your progress. Before you start on the technical work, reflect back on how the pre-work has gone so far.
- Have the time estimates matched up with your experience?
- When you sit down to start working, do you have a clear goal of what you want to accomplish and in how much time? If so, how aligned is that to what actually happens?
- How do you work best - in 2 hour blocks, 4 hour blocks, etc? Do you take breaks regularly? Do you have a system to hold yourself accountable to taking breaks?

You've probably heard of the Pomodoro Technique in Mod 0 classes (and elsewhere, maybe!). During this final section of pre-work, we are going to ask that you follow this technique. Please read about it [here](https://www.dovico.com/blog/2020/08/26/the-pomodoro-technique-how-to-manage-your-work-time-and-flow-the-easy-way/). The article doesn't mention writing down Step 1, but we ask that you find a special spot in your notebook where you do this for each work session. In the deliverables, we will ask that you share what you wrote down for Step 1 of the technique each time you started a new task. _Note: if the 25 minutes on/3-5 minutes off isn't best for you, you do **not** have to follow that! The main focus of this is setting an intention and continuing to better understand your working style._

## Part B Classes

Today, you are going to be learning about Objects and Classes. In ruby, Classes are one of the tools we use to group together specific Methods that are meant to work together, or on the same type of Object. Arriving at Turing with a strong understanding of how to build a class, and how to call Methods on that class will make your first couple of weeks go smoothly!

When you are all done with the lessons, exercises, and questions for today, you will once again use git to save your work locally, and then send your work to Github.

1. Work through the following lessons. Any files that you create while working can be kept in today's `exercises` directory.

    - [ ] [What Are Objects](https://launchschool.com/books/oo_ruby/read/the_object_model#whatareobjects) section from LaunchSchool.

    - [ ] [Classes Define Objects](https://launchschool.com/books/oo_ruby/read/the_object_model#classesdefineobjects) section from LaunchSchool.

    - [ ] [Classes and Objects Part 1](https://launchschool.com/books/oo_ruby/read/classes_and_objects_part1) from LaunchSchool.

    - [ ] [Objects, Attributes and Methods](http://tutorials.jumpstartlab.com/projects/ruby_in_100_minutes.html#11.-objects,-attributes,-and-methods) from Ruby in 100 Minutes.

1. Work through the files in the section4/exercises directory.

1. Answer the questions in the reflection.md file in the section4 directory.

## Reflection

📝 Answer the questions in the `reflection.md` file in the section4 directory.

## Save your work, push to GitHub

Commit your Code Challenges and push up to your GitHub repository.


## Index Links

- [Vocabulary](#Vocabulary)
- [Part A: How You Spend Your Time](#Part-A-How-You-Spend-Your-Time)
- [Part B: Classes](#Part-B-Classes)


🚀 [Go to the Final Prep](../final_prep)

Commit message:

Complete section4, Add section3 exercises

section4/README.md, after:

# Section 4 - Objects, Classes and Code Challenges

Section 4 is estimated to take a total of 10-14 hours to complete. Similar to the previous sections, this section of pre-work involves reading 📒, 👨🏾‍💻exercises, and 📝reflection questions. Make sure to manage your time well so that should you get stuck and need help, you have plenty of time to do so and meet the deadline.

- [Vocabulary](#Vocabulary)
- [Part A: How You Spend Your Time](#Part-A-How-You-Spend-Your-Time)
- [Part B: Classes](#Part-B-Classes)

## Vocabulary

### Vocabulary Terms

- method
- class
- class instance
- properties

## Part A How You Spend Your Time

One challenge developers face, moreso when they are starting out, is estimating how long something will take. Sometimes we don't account for merge conflicts, bugs, annoying Slack messages, and all the other things that interrupt our workflow or slow us down.

One challenge learners in a new environment/content area face is feeling like they know nothing, and until they know everything, they feel like they are failing.

So this week, we would like you to start self-monitoring your progress. Before you start on the technical work, reflect back on how the pre-work has gone so far.
- Have the time estimates matched up with your experience?
  - At first I estimated I would finish the pre-work sections much faster but they were more time consuming then I expected. I allotted plenty of time to complete the work though so it wasn't a problem.
- When you sit down to start working, do you have a clear goal of what you want to accomplish and in how much time? If so, how aligned is that to what actually happens?
  - Since I had plenty of time to complete the pre-work and session homework I didn't specify as clear of goals as I will have to in the future. I did schedule clear time blocks to work diligently and finish as much as I could. I am currently on track to finish the work early with time to review so I think it turned out well.
- How do you work best - in 2 hour blocks, 4 hour blocks, etc? Do you take breaks regularly? Do you have a system to hold yourself accountable to taking breaks?
  - I probably work best in 2 hour blocks. For the last few weeks I have been taking breaks whenever my attention seems to waver or my eyes hurt but I probably need to be more mindful in the future.

You've probably heard of the Pomodoro Technique in Mod 0 classes (and elsewhere, maybe!). During this final section of pre-work, we are going to ask that you follow this technique. Please read about it [here](https://www.dovico.com/blog/2020/08/26/the-pomodoro-technique-how-to-manage-your-work-time-and-flow-the-easy-way/). The article doesn't mention writing down Step 1, but we ask that you find a special spot in your notebook where you do this for each work session. In the deliverables, we will ask that you share what you wrote down for Step 1 of the technique each time you started a new task. _Note: if the 25 minutes on/3-5 minutes off isn't best for you, you do **not** have to follow that! The main focus of this is setting an intention and continuing to better understand your working style._

## Part B Classes

Today, you are going to be learning about Objects and Classes. In ruby, Classes are one of the tools we use to group together specific Methods that are meant to work together, or on the same type of Object. Arriving at Turing with a strong understanding of how to build a class, and how to call Methods on that class will make your first couple of weeks go smoothly!

When you are all done with the lessons, exercises, and questions for today, you will once again use git to save your work locally, and then send your work to Github.

1. Work through the following lessons. Any files that you create while working can be kept in today's `exercises` directory.

    - [ ] [What Are Objects](https://launchschool.com/books/oo_ruby/read/the_object_model#whatareobjects) section from LaunchSchool.

    - [ ] [Classes Define Objects](https://launchschool.com/books/oo_ruby/read/the_object_model#classesdefineobjects) section from LaunchSchool.

    - [ ] [Classes and Objects Part 1](https://launchschool.com/books/oo_ruby/read/classes_and_objects_part1) from LaunchSchool.

    - [ ] [Objects, Attributes and Methods](http://tutorials.jumpstartlab.com/projects/ruby_in_100_minutes.html#11.-objects,-attributes,-and-methods) from Ruby in 100 Minutes.

1. Work through the files in the section4/exercises directory.

1. Answer the questions in the reflection.md file in the section4 directory.

## Reflection

📝 Answer the questions in the `reflection.md` file in the section4 directory.

## Save your work, push to GitHub

Commit your Code Challenges and push up to your GitHub repository.


## Index Links

- [Vocabulary](#Vocabulary)
- [Part A: How You Spend Your Time](#Part-A-How-You-Spend-Your-Time)
- [Part B: Classes](#Part-B-Classes)


🚀 [Go to the Final Prep](../final_prep)
